# -*- mode: org; encoding: utf-8 -*-
#	$Id: README,v 1.4 2018/05/12 16:35:59 doug Exp $	


* Intent

The intents of cpio-mode are the following:
• It should be as much like dired as possible.¹
  (The current keymap effectively duplicated dired's.)
• It should be easy to add new archive formats to it.
  That is, in particular, it should admit, for any inode-like archive format,
  an absract interface that leaves the the UI intact
  and independent of the underlying format.
  This should, for example, allow 
  for converting between and among archive formats nearly trivially.

It should also allow for dired-like functions.
Specifically, those things that dired within emacs allows.
That includes things like
• Adding/deleting entries
• Editing entries
• Changing an entry's attributes (chown, chgrp, chmod, etc.).
________________
¹Yes, this is a terrible requirement.
 However, it does allow for incremental development relatively easily.

* Adding a new archive type

To add a new archive type a devloper should be able to do so
merely by being able to parse an entry and
write a parsed entry back to a file.
 
Right now (2017 Dec 10), the cpio-mode package supports the above
for the "newc" format of cpio archives.
However, the internal structure of cpio-mode implements
all of the manipulation code in terms of parsed headers
(which look much like inodes), so adding new formats should be
relatively easy.
See the documentation in cpio.el
for a slightly more detailed description of this structure.

* Other code

Some more generic code is delivered with cpio-mode.

* cpio-generic.el

* cpio-modes.el

* cpio-affiliated-buffers.el

There's also a package of Affiliated Buffers included
that should be independent.
(And one day it will be published that way.)

The idea behind cpio-affiliated-buffers.el is
that there's a reference buffer and that reference buffer can have
buffers affiliated with it.
Killing the reference buffer should kill all the affiliated buffers.
An affiliated buffer can have buffers affiliated with it.
Affiliated buffers don't typically have anything to do with each other,
and cpio-affiliated-buffers.el includes no way to create such relationships.

cpio-mode uses the following sort of structure of buffer affiliation:

archive
   ├─ cpio-dired buffer
   ├─ entry
   ├─ entry
   └─ ...

In theory it could be a full tree.
For example, if one of the entries were itself a cpio archive,
then its entries could also be included:

archive
   ├─ cpio-dired buffer
   ├─ entry
   ├─ an entry that is a cpio archive.
   │    ├─ its cpio-dired-buffer
   │    ├─ one of its entries
   │    ├─ another such entry
   │    └─ ...
   ├─ entry
   └─ ...

* Testing

cpio-mode includes a few ERT tests.
All the testing is sunny day day testing.
Rarely are any error conditions tested.

cpio-generic-tests.el provides basic testing of some of the funciton
implemented in cpio-generic.el.

cpio-modes-test.el provides basic testing of some of the function
implemented in cpio-modes.el.

cab-test.el provides basic testing of cpio-affiliated-buffers.el.
(Yes, cpio-affiliated-buffers.el still has bugs.)

cpio-newc-test.el provides basic testing of some of the function
implemented in cpio-newc.el.

cpio-dired-test.el provides basic testing of some dired-like functions.
This testing typically takes the form
    1. Do something.
    2. Compare the dired-style buffers.
    3. Compare the archive buffers.
Occasionally, there are other things, like checking for modification,
or visibility of a window.
Some tests use a "large" cpio archive (one with 26·5 = 130 entries).
Those are not fast, so be patient if you're going to run these.

